Okay so we are talking about this weird phenomenon where people with conservative world views pick up the aesthetics of liberal/countercultural lives. "aesthetics" isn't really the right word. These are substantive changes lifestyle changes that people undertake. But the circle doesn't really square here. My guess is that it is easy to look at Conservatism on the federal and even state level as this hypothetical affair that is more a statement on how you want the world to feel rather than those institutions being concrete things that have direct harmful impacts on your life.

Okay I think I see what they are doing here. In 2002 the republican party were more "business as usual" types with an edge toward "preserving american values" (this attitude will later go on to them completely dominating the idea of patriotism which later leads to the aesthetics of the tea party). A "crunchy con" wants to believe in the false idea that a man is an island and that "The True and Good" life resides somewhere in a murky past where we used to be self-sufficient

That's the rub! The counterculturalist (at least from the previous article) believed in all of us being equal and there for there is no reason to fear your the outside because we are all capable of the same good. However the "Crunchy Con" believes that "Good" and "Bad" exist as intrinsic parts of your soul in the religious sense and so believe conservative values because they help sort the world into the "Deserving"(good) and "Non-Deserving"(Bad)

conservatives never believed that "cultivating aesthetic taste was a worth while investment" they really believed in the construction and funding of nationalist propaganda. You can make your public art sure but only if it honors or political mythology

I think their is a very fine line between "painting other peoples lifestyles as a moral failing" and "advocating human rights/making changes that are hard but necessary for a continuing society". Sometimes leftist I think cross that line when arguing about the future and sometimes aren't making that distinction clear enough and I think other times it is people getting reflexively defensive and not want to hear them out. It is nuanced and sort of goes statement by statement.

A weird thing that the article admits is that Crunchy Cons believe that their values extend past just taste and "heal a fundemental part of the human soul that modernity has damaged" but yet hey "don't want to force their lifestyle onto anybody" and I don't really get how you can square that circle. Do you believe that your ideas are worth fight for? or do you think it is okay for them to put in another strip mall and damage more of the planet. I might agree with them that it is not that serious if putting up the strip mall didn't posion the air we breath.

