Okay so the first bit of the article discuss how in the time since the 60s the counterculture lost this fight of "national security". The government has free reign to deny your liberties to "keep you safe", and a defining element of the counterculture was the opposition to that idea.

The ideas pioneered by the counterculture those of "we are all one unified people/world peace" are a direct combat against national security because if we are all one people then why should we fear our neighbors

Okay this is a small knit pick but I think it could be important. The article says that we can see past all these lines that divide us: straights from gays, anglos from latinos, etc. The problem is it then goes on to say "Elites from the Working class" which I take issue with because that divide is real and not intrinsic to an identity. To be rich is by definition to have power over those poor than you. Money is power after all. And to say we are all one while over looking the societal pressures that make us act against each other I think is a gross oversimplification and part of the reason why those ideas failed.

We'll see if they address this later but it is a powerful idea that the obsession with security is born from the fear of something. It is posed here as the fear of the other and in the context of american national security that is certainly the case, but it is also valuable to note that the obsession with walls also stems from a fear of the self. I want to limit interaction not just based on what power the outside world might have on me but what power I will have on the outside world

Non-security is a really powerful Idea. I think the Gen-z term would be "just straight vibing". Letting go of insecurities and being able to not fear thy neighbor is really where we should seek to be I would submit. However this is another place where the movement fails. It is arrogant to believe that everyone has equal ability to "switch their mind off and love with their heart" but it simple isn't true! there are so many economic factors that weigh on us that in order to become "non-secure" necessarily means you need to switch off your self preservation instinct

When will the cowboy finally put up his guns and realize the world has outgrown him? how many westerns or samurai films, or pirates of the cariban moves will it take before people realize that the frontieer is dead. There is no more big scary outside world you need to protect yourself against, nobody is over the horizon and going to take your land. It isn't me vs the world anymore! everything has been discovered now it is time to lay down the rifles and figure out what we are going to make of the resources in the land we have!

I guess my biggest addendum to this piece is that I agree that we need to bring back the 60s critique of "national security" but that can't happen until we insure greater economic security for the majority of people. How can we even attempt "non-security" when we can't even master "food security"

