# Chapter 10

How does one Structure and manage Group Problem solving

Identify and define the problem:
* What is the specific problem?
    * Parking at Texas
* What de we want more of or less of?
    * We want to increase parking at Texas State.
* What terms need defining
    * what does increase mean?
    * What does parking (parking for who) mean?
    * What does Texas State mean?

Analyze the Problem
* Find answers to the following questions:
    * How long has this been a problem?
    * How widespread is the problem?
    * What are the causes of the problem?
    * What are the effects of the problem?
        * consider extremes
    * What has been done in the past?
* Develop criteria (or standard fo an acceptable solution)
    * how will you gauge the solutions as good enough
    * forcefield analysis: Driving and restraining forces
        * what can help/hinder your solution

Generate Creative Solutions
* Brainstorming: A technique for generating solutions to a problem by withholding evaluation while group members suggest ideas
* Nominal group technique - silent brainstorming

Select the best Solution
* Does the solution meet our criteria
* Foes the solution solve the problem in both the short and long term
*  Do we have the resources to implement the solution

Take action - Execute the plan:
* how do we know the solution will solve the problem?
* What are the ethical consequences of selection the proposed solution?
* What are the ethical consequences of *NOT* selection your other solution ideas

## Chapter 9 *speed round*
Small groups vs teams:
* Small groups are loose collections of people with the same goal
* Teams have clear goals and position in the team

Roles:
* Task role - oriented on task
* Social role - viber
* Individual - focused on themselves

Power:
* Legitimate
* Reward
* Referent
* coercive
* Expert
